README.md, before:

# Shamir's Secret Sharing & Cryptographic Library

A production-grade cryptographic library implementing Shamir's Secret Sharing, Multi-Party Computation, and advanced cryptographic primitives.

## Features

- ✅ Shamir's Secret Sharing (SSS)
- ✅ Secure Memory Management
- ✅ Multi-Party Computation (MPC)
- ✅ GF(256) field operations
- ✅ Polynomial evaluation & interpolation
- 🔄 Threshold Signatures (in progress)
- 📋 Homomorphic Encryption (planned)
- 📋 Zero-Knowledge Proofs (planned)

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended - Isolated & Safe)

**Prerequisites:** Docker and Docker Compose

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/crypto-lib.git
cd crypto-lib

# Build and test in Docker
./scripts/docker-build.sh

# Or use docker-compose directly
docker-compose up --build
```

### Option 2: Native Build

**Prerequisites:**
- CMake 3.10+
- C compiler (GCC or Clang)
- libsodium

**Install dependencies:**

macOS:
```bash
brew install libsodium cmake
```

Ubuntu/Debian:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libsodium-dev cmake build-essential
```

Fedora:
```bash
sudo dnf install libsodium-devel cmake gcc
```

**Build:**
```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

**Run tests:**
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## Manual Build

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make

# Run tests
./simple_test
./comprehensive_test
./secure_memory_test
./mpc_foundation_test
```

## Project Structure

```
├── include/          # Public headers
│   ├── sss/          # Core library
│   │   ├── field.h
│   │   ├── polynomial.h
│   │   ├── secret_sharing.h
│   │   └── mpc.h
│   └── utils/        # Utilities
│       ├── random.h
│       ├── error.h
│       └── secure_memory.h
├── src/              # Implementation
│   ├── core/         # Core crypto
│   │   ├── field_arithmetic.c
│   │   ├── polynomial.c
│   │   ├── secret_sharing.c
│   │   └── mpc.c
│   └── utils/        # Utility functions
│       ├── random.c
│       ├── error.c
│       └── secure_memory.c
├── tests/            # Test suite
├── scripts/          # Build scripts
└── Dockerfile        # Docker setup
```

## Usage Example

```c
#include "sss/secret_sharing.h"

// Initialize
sss_init();

// Split secret
const uint8_t secret[] = "My Secret";
sss_share_t shares[5];
sss_create_shares(secret, strlen(secret), 3, 5, shares);

// Reconstruct (any 3 shares)
uint8_t reconstructed[256];
size_t len = sizeof(reconstructed);
sss_combine_shares(shares, 3, reconstructed, &len);

// Clean up
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    sss_wipe_share(&shares[i]);
}
```

## Docker Usage

### Automatic Testing (Default)
```bash
# Build and run all tests (container exits automatically)
docker-compose up --build

# Or use the helper script
./scripts/docker-build.sh
```

### Interactive Development Shell
```bash
# Start an interactive shell in the container
docker-compose run --rm crypto-lib bash

# Inside container, you can:
cd build
cmake .. && make
./simple_test
./comprehensive_test
```

### Clean Test Run
```bash
# Full rebuild from scratch (CI/CD style)
./scripts/docker-test.sh
```

**See [DOCKER_USAGE.md](DOCKER_USAGE.md) for detailed Docker usage guide.**

### Cleanup
```bash
docker-compose down
docker volume rm personal_projects_build-cache
```

## Testing

The project includes comprehensive tests:

- **simple_test** - Basic functionality
- **comprehensive_test** - Advanced scenarios
- **secure_memory_test** - Memory security
- **mpc_foundation_test** - Multi-party computation

Run all tests:
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration:
- Tests on Ubuntu and macOS
- Docker build verification
- Runs on every push and pull request

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please ensure:
1. All tests pass
2. Code follows project style
3. Add tests for new features
4. Update documentation

## License

MIT License (see [LICENSE](LICENSE))

## Security

This library handles cryptographic operations. For security concerns:
- Report vulnerabilities privately
- Use secure memory management functions
- Follow best practices for key storage

Commit message:

Add complete documentation for public release
- LICENSE: MIT License (Oguz Kirmizi, 2026)
- CONTRIBUTING.md: Comprehensive contribution guidelines
- DOCKER_USAGE.md: Complete Docker usage guide
- SECURITY.md: Security model and vulnerability reporting
- README.md: Updated with correct URLs and contact info

All documentation ready for v0.3-alpha public release.

README.md, after:

# Shamir's Secret Sharing & Cryptographic Library

A production-grade cryptographic library implementing Shamir's Secret Sharing, Multi-Party Computation, and advanced cryptographic primitives.

## Features

- ✅ Shamir's Secret Sharing (SSS)
- ✅ Secure Memory Management
- ✅ Multi-Party Computation (MPC)
- ✅ GF(256) field operations
- ✅ Polynomial evaluation & interpolation
- 🔄 Threshold Signatures (in progress)
- 📋 Homomorphic Encryption (planned)
- 📋 Zero-Knowledge Proofs (planned)

## Quick Start

### Option 1: Docker (Recommended - Isolated & Safe)

**Prerequisites:** Docker and Docker Compose

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/thehephaistosI/crypto-mpc.git
cd crypto-mpc

# Build and test in Docker
./scripts/docker-build.sh

# Or use docker-compose directly
docker-compose up --build
```

### Option 2: Native Build

**Prerequisites:**
- CMake 3.10+
- C compiler (GCC or Clang)
- libsodium

**Install dependencies:**

macOS:
```bash
brew install libsodium cmake
```

Ubuntu/Debian:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libsodium-dev cmake build-essential
```

Fedora:
```bash
sudo dnf install libsodium-devel cmake gcc
```

**Build:**
```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

**Run tests:**
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## Manual Build

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make

# Run tests
./simple_test
./comprehensive_test
./secure_memory_test
./mpc_foundation_test
```

## Project Structure

```
├── include/          # Public headers
│   ├── sss/          # Core library
│   │   ├── field.h
│   │   ├── polynomial.h
│   │   ├── secret_sharing.h
│   │   └── mpc.h
│   └── utils/        # Utilities
│       ├── random.h
│       ├── error.h
│       └── secure_memory.h
├── src/              # Implementation
│   ├── core/         # Core crypto
│   │   ├── field_arithmetic.c
│   │   ├── polynomial.c
│   │   ├── secret_sharing.c
│   │   └── mpc.c
│   └── utils/        # Utility functions
│       ├── random.c
│       ├── error.c
│       └── secure_memory.c
├── tests/            # Test suite
├── scripts/          # Build scripts
└── Dockerfile        # Docker setup
```

## Usage Example

```c
#include "sss/secret_sharing.h"

// Initialize
sss_init();

// Split secret
const uint8_t secret[] = "My Secret";
sss_share_t shares[5];
sss_create_shares(secret, strlen(secret), 3, 5, shares);

// Reconstruct (any 3 shares)
uint8_t reconstructed[256];
size_t len = sizeof(reconstructed);
sss_combine_shares(shares, 3, reconstructed, &len);

// Clean up
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    sss_wipe_share(&shares[i]);
}
```

## Docker Usage

### Automatic Testing (Default)
```bash
# Build and run all tests (container exits automatically)
docker-compose up --build

# Or use the helper script
./scripts/docker-build.sh
```

### Interactive Development Shell
```bash
# Start an interactive shell in the container
docker-compose run --rm crypto-lib bash

# Inside container, you can:
cd build
cmake .. && make
./simple_test
./comprehensive_test
```

### Clean Test Run
```bash
# Full rebuild from scratch (CI/CD style)
./scripts/docker-test.sh
```

**See [DOCKER_USAGE.md](DOCKER_USAGE.md) for detailed Docker usage guide.**

### Cleanup
```bash
docker-compose down
docker volume rm personal_projects_build-cache
```

## Testing

The project includes comprehensive tests:

- **simple_test** - Basic functionality
- **comprehensive_test** - Advanced scenarios
- **secure_memory_test** - Memory security
- **mpc_foundation_test** - Multi-party computation

Run all tests:
```bash
./scripts/test.sh
```

## CI/CD

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration:
- Tests on Ubuntu and macOS
- Docker build verification
- Runs on every push and pull request

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidelines.

**Ways to contribute:**
- 🐛 Report bugs
- 💡 Suggest features
- 📚 Improve documentation
- ✨ Submit code

All contributors are recognized in release notes and the project README.

## 📬 Contact

- **GitHub:** [@thehephaistosI](https://github.com/thehephaistosI)
- **LinkedIn:** [Oguz Kirmizi](https://linkedin.com/in/oguz-kirmizi)

Questions? Open an issue or reach out on LinkedIn!

## License

MIT License (see [LICENSE](LICENSE))

## 🔒 Security

This library handles cryptographic operations and sensitive data.

**Security Model:** Semi-honest (honest-but-curious) adversaries

**For security vulnerabilities:**
- **DO NOT** open public issues
- Report privately via GitHub Security Advisories
- Or contact: LinkedIn DM to [Oguz Kirmizi](https://linkedin.com/in/oguz-kirmizi)

See [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md) for detailed security information and upgrade paths to malicious security.
